Declarative Integrity Constraints

Ensure your account has a copy of the emp and dept tables. (The emp table
should have 14 rows and the dept table 4 rows)

1. Enforce a constraint on the deptno column such that it becomes a foreign key
referencing the dept table.

2. Enforce primary key constraints on the emp and dept tables (use empno in the
emp table and deptno in the dept table). Name the constraints using the format
pk _tablename

3. Repeat 2 without explicitly naming the constraint.

4. Identify where the details of constraints are maintained in the Oracle 
data dictionary, and locate the details of your foreign key constraint. You
will need to construct appropriate search criteria.

5. Change the referential constraint on emp. Deptno such that it has an explicit
name conforming to the format fk_tablename_columnname

6. Introduce a default value of $ 1000 for sal.

7. Make sure that the job column is NOT NULL (use
the standard naming convention of nn_tablename_columnname)

8. Try to make sure (using a CHECK constraint) that hiredate is not later than
today's date.

9. Make sure that sal values are within $700 to $7000

10. Try inserting new employees with:
A salary value of $500
An unknown salary (NULL)

11. Ensure that dname values are unique.

12. Create an index on the foreign key emp.deptno

13. Identify where the details of indexes are stored in the Oracle data
dictionary. Locate the details of your emp.deptno index definition.

14. Carry out the following operations in order to test your constraints:

Try to insert a duplicate employee
Insert a new department having the same name as `OPERATIONS'
Insert a new employee in department 99
Insert a new employee in an unknown department
Insert a new employee with a salary of $8000
Delete department 30 from the department table
Delete department 40 from the department table

15. Change the emp table such that if a department record is deleted from the
dept Table, corresponding employee records are automatically deleted
from the emp table. (You will need to use the DELETE CASCADE clause in a new
constraint)

16. Delete department 30 from the dept table and query both tables
to observe the Result.

17. Disable the primary key constraint on the emp table.

18. Insert a new employee with a duplicate empno value { Aside: How would
you identify duplicate rows and subsequently remove them?}

